# Day 4

Didn't have much time for this today so all I did was edit my Tip Calculator from yesterday to use local variables like [Tim Macdonald](https://github.com/TomLisankie/Learning-Lisp/commit/dcfa8c4495392090f837bad4e195c8d6b22f2ba0#r31519134) suggested. I had no idea that `defvar` was only for global variables. I thought what made a variable global was surrounding the symbol name with asterisks. It wasn't working with his code (the let binding for the `tip` variable was malformed). Fixed that so I was no longer getting an error from the compiler. The code looked like this:

```commonlisp
(let ((tip (get-tip price percentage))
        (total (+ price tip)))
    (format t "Your tip is $~a.~%Your total is $~a.~%" tip total)))
```

I was still getting warnings stating `tip` wasn't found though. I tried to run it anyway and it kept crashing because `tip` hadn't been declared yet in the compiler's eyes. The only way I was able to fix this was by removing the `tip` variable completely and just passing the result from the evaluation of `(get-tip price percentage)` directly into the calculation of the total. So the function ended up looking like this:

```commonlisp
(defun calculate-tip-and-total (price percentage)
    (let ((total (+ price (get-tip price percentage))))
        (format t "Your tip is $~a.~%Your total is $~a.~%" (get-tip price percentage) total)))
```

If anyone knows how to make it so I can refer to one local variable with another, please let me know.

It was also pointed out to me on Twitter by [Rainer Joswig](https://twitter.com/RainerJoswig/status/1069008759031255041) and on GitHub by [vindarel](https://github.com/TomLisankie/Learning-Lisp/commit/dcfa8c4495392090f837bad4e195c8d6b22f2ba0#r31520888) that there is actually a library for parsing floats out of strings. Didn't implement it in the Tip Calculator today, but maybe another day.

Also, I didn't see this until today, but [Michael Herda](https://github.com/TomLisankie/Learning-Lisp/commit/322c906d2a5f2d4e8c24af8f5b7d0bb5536c8611#r31513329) gave me a great explanation of what constitutes the difference between forms and non-forms in Common Lisp. It really cleared it up and made the difference feel more concrete for me.

Code for today's post is in `code/Dec2018/1`.